ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC RETROPERITONEAL ULTRASONOGRAPHY:
Liver has normal size and homogenous parenchymal echo with no S.O.L.
Hepatic and portosplenic venous system have normal diameter.
Gall bladder is over distended with mild diffuse increased wall thickness (3.2mm) wall and there are some echogenic sludge and few stones in the dependent part of gall bladder the largest is 20mm in favor of early stage of acute cholecystitis and F/U the patient is recommended.
CBD is significantly dilated (19.5mm) and a 33x14mm echogenic lesion was seen in the proximal part of CBD more in favor of inspissated sludge rather than mass however correlation with ERCP is recommended .
Mild to moderate dilatation of intra hepatic bile ducts was seen .
Splenic size(Span= 114 mm) and echotexture are normal , with no S.O.L.
Visualized of pancreas has normal size and echo with no S.O.L.
No para aortic mass or enlarged lymph node seen .
Left kidney show normal size (94x46mm ) , contour and parenchymal echotexture.
Right kidney has normal size (108x56mm) and there is 47x37 mm heterogenous iso to hypoechoic mass in mid and lower poles of right kidney in favor of malignant tumoral lesion and correlation with CT scan with contrast & tissue diagnosis is recommended .
There are few cysts in both kidneys the largest in right side is 33mm & in left side is 25mm.
There is 11 mm stone injunction of mid and lower poles & 5 mm stone in lower pole of left kidney with no hydronephrosis .
There are few smaller than 5 mm stones in right kidney with no hydronephrosis .
Urinary bladder is semi distended with diffuse irregular thick (4.3mm) wall with no stone or mass in favor of chronic outlet obstruction .
No ascites or fluid collection is seen.
Prostate is enlarged , measuring about ( 48x62x50mm) , volume = 80 cc , with heterogenous echo with no S.O.L. There is hypertrophy of central gland , which protrude to bladder base , in favor of B.P.H. correlation with PSA and FNA is recommended .
Seminal vessicles appear normal .
There is no definite sign of mass or collection in visualized part of retroperitoneal space.
